---
title: "Topics"
---

Sending messages to a single endpoint and not having to worry about retries is
already quite useful, but we also added the concept of topics to QStash.

In short, a topic is just a namespace where you can publish messages to, the
same way as publishing a message to an endpoint directly.

After creating a topic, you can create one or multiple endpoints. An endpoint is
defined by a publicly available URL where the request will be sent to each
endpoint after it is published to the topic.

When you publish a message to a topic, it will be fanned out and sent to all the
subscribed endpoints.

## When should I use topics?

Topics decouple your message producers from consumers by grouping one or more
endpoints into a single namespace.

Here's an example: You have a serverless function which is invoked with each
purchase in your e-commerce site. You want to send email to the customer after
the purchase. Inside the function, you submit the URL `api/sendEmail` to the
QStash. Later, if you want to send a Slack notification, you need to update the
serverless function adding another call to QStash to submit
`api/sendNotification`. In this example, you need to update and redeploy the
Serverless function at each time you change (or add) the endpoints.

If you create a topic `product-purchase` and produce messages to that topic in
the function, then you can add or remove endpoints by only updating the topic.
Topics give you freedom to modify endpoints without touching the backend
implementation.

Check [here](/qstash/howto/publishing#publish-to-topic) to learn how to publish
to topics.

## How topics work

When you publish a message to a topic, we will enqueue a unique task for each
subscribed endpoint and guarantee successful delivery to each one of them.

[![](https://mermaid.ink/img/pako:eNp1kl1rgzAUhv9KyOWoddXNtrkYVNdf0F0U5ijRHDVMjctHoRT_-2KtaztUQeS8j28e8JxxKhhggpWmGt45zSWtnKMX13GN7PX59IUc5w19iIanBDUmKbkq-qwfXuKdSVQqeQLssK1ZI3itVQ9dekdzdO6Ja9ntKKq-DxtEoP4xYGCIr-OOGCoOG4IYlPwIcqBu0V0XQRK0PE0w9lyCvP1-iB1n1CgcNwofjcJpo_Cua8ooHDWadIrGnaJHp2jaKbrrmnKK_jl1d9s98AxXICvKmd2fy8-MsS6gghgT-5oJCUrH2NKWNA2zi7BlXAuJSUZLBTNMjRa7U51ioqWBAbpu4R9VCsrAfnTG-tR0u5pzpW1lKuqM593cyNKOC60bRVy3i-c514VJ5qmoXMVZQaUujuvADbxgRT0fgqVPX32fpclivcq8l0XGls8Lj-K2bX8Bx2nzPg)](https://mermaid.live/edit#pako:eNp1kl1rgzAUhv9KyOWoddXNtrkYVNdf0F0U5ijRHDVMjctHoRT_-2KtaztUQeS8j28e8JxxKhhggpWmGt45zSWtnKMX13GN7PX59IUc5w19iIanBDUmKbkq-qwfXuKdSVQqeQLssK1ZI3itVQ9dekdzdO6Ja9ntKKq-DxtEoP4xYGCIr-OOGCoOG4IYlPwIcqBu0V0XQRK0PE0w9lyCvP1-iB1n1CgcNwofjcJpo_Cua8ooHDWadIrGnaJHp2jaKbrrmnKK_jl1d9s98AxXICvKmd2fy8-MsS6gghgT-5oJCUrH2NKWNA2zi7BlXAuJSUZLBTNMjRa7U51ioqWBAbpu4R9VCsrAfnTG-tR0u5pzpW1lKuqM593cyNKOC60bRVy3i-c514VJ5qmoXMVZQaUujuvADbxgRT0fgqVPX32fpclivcq8l0XGls8Lj-K2bX8Bx2nzPg)

Consider this scenario: You have a topic and 3 endpoints that are subscribed to
it. Now when you publish a message to the topic, internally we will create a
task for each subscribed endpoint and handle all retry mechanism isolated from
each other.

## How to create a topic

Please refer to the howto [here](/qstash/howto/topic-endpoint).
